---
layout: post
title: "Using Docker for development on wsl2"
categories: [docker,jekyll]
---

Notes on docker use for development on WSl2 system.

I decided to use docker for a jekyll project.
The reason is with all upgrades and gems possible conflicts management of the
environment  becomes problematic. Moving project to another environment might be
not that straight forward.

Containerization approach.
With docker container the whole project becomes easy manageable and reproducible.
Plus if you have any conflicts during installation it is much easier to analyze
the problem and resolve the conflict.

My requirements to the solution:
1. Editing project files should not change the setup.
2. Version control should not be affected.
3. The whole setup should be reproducible and automated as much as possible.
4. Jekyll should generate site and run it on local system port 4000.

The first two reqrements cold be satisfied using docker option "volume".
It allows to map local host directories to virtual directories.
Docker volume is aka rsync in Linux.
The third one is the key feature of the docker itself.
The last could be done using docker parameter "port". It will map local host
port to the application port.

One additional configuration step is necessary due to default docker user.
It is root. This is not optimal. According to best practices application will run
on application user account only with necessary privileges.

To accomplish this portable way we can place whole configuration into docker file

## Dcokerfile
FROM jekyll/jekyll
RUN addgroup jekyll &&  \
    adduser --ingroup jekyll --disabled-password --gecos '' jekyll && \
    chown jekyll:jekyll /home/jekyll
USER jekyll
RUN mkdir -p /home/jekyll/site \
    && chown -R jekyll:jekyll /home/jekyll/site
VOLUME /home/jekyll/site
WORKDIR /home/jekyll/site
EXPOSE 4000
RUN apk add py-pip
RUN pip
CMD bundle install \
    && jekyll serve --host=0.0.0.0 --force_polling --watch

Let's look into the details:


1. Use the latest jekyll image from dockerhub
2. Configure creation of docker container with the following arguments
- volumes

in my case the critical part happened to be gem installation
